My husband contracted COVID-19.
He was brought to the ICU,
and two days later, he passed away.
We weren’t able to say goodbye.
We weren’t able to see each other.
We weren’t able to have our
last conversation.
My husband and I got sick
in the month of March 2020,
and then my husband fell asleep in death.
Isolation can make you depressed.
I would say that was
the worst time of my life.
My husband contracted COVID,
and he was breathing heavily.
So I called 911.
The ambulance took him,
and on the way to the hospital,
his heart stopped.
My bank account was blocked,
I had debts,
I had COVID,
and the landlord gave me
a week to leave the house.
My husband used to do everything,
and now it’s
my responsibility to be
the spiritual head of the family.
I needed help.
The elders helped me prepare
for our family worship.
That’s exactly what we needed at that moment.
There were times I felt dejected
and weak.
The sisters really helped me
by showing personal interest.
In fact, not a day went by
without them calling me.
I was feeling tired, without strength.
I felt helpless.
So the friends took care
of the entire move,
helped to clean the house,
and helped me out financially.
They were like my arms and legs.
They supported me.
I felt like my spiritual family
was carrying me in their arms.
Everything that my brothers and sisters
did for me during that difficult time
—the messages, the postcards, the flowers—
that shows me the kind of family that I have.
That’s what the kids really needed to see
—that we were not alone,
that our friends were there, even though
they couldn’t be here physically with us.
The brothers have encouraged me
in so many ways,
from letters from pioneers
spread all over Italy
to video calls, phone calls, and messages.
I realized
that there will always be someone
who Jehovah uses to comfort me.
Before, I felt weak and powerless.
Jehovah gave me strength;
he helped me by means of the brothers.
The day after my husband died, I was
so surprised when I opened the door
and our friends started singing for us.
At that moment, I realized,
‘We’re not going to be alone.
We have our spiritual family.’
I began to speak to Jehovah more intensely.
Before, I would talk to my husband
about everything.
Now I share my problems
and anxieties with Jehovah.
I’ve been keeping a little journal
of everything that Jehovah has done for us,
and I write it down
because I want to be able to tell my husband
when I see him again.
I didn’t feel alone at any time.
I felt that I belonged to a family
that was caring for me and supporting me.
I really saw Jehovah’s love
and the help he gives.
He can do anything
to help you feel better
when you are going through trials.
Seeing Jehovah’s support for me
by means of the brothers
makes me feel secure when thinking about how
he will support me in the future.
I can say that in the future,
I am absolutely certain
that Jehovah will be with me.
There’s no pandemic
and there’s no bad situation
that will prevent Jehovah
from reaching anyone
when they’re going through trials.